hey how's it going Dave 2d here and this
is a video on the surface laptop and
whether or not it's overpriced so when
the thing launched I think a lot of
people were very excited about it
because it looks really cool but then
when the price was revealed people were
disappointed because it seemed a little
bit more expensive than it should have
been now it's a surface device so the
whole surface product line has always
been a little bit more expensive it's a
more premium product line so it's to be
expected now if you take a look at the
build quality the exterior build quality
is fantastic I would say that the fit
and finish of this thing is comparable
to the MacBooks it's a better finish
than the XPS 13 it's a better finish
than the Razer Blade stealth better than
HP Lenovo it literally has the best
build quality in any Windows laptop that
I've seen to date for this 13-inch
screen size the hinge feels well tuned
and it's durable you can open the lid
with one hand really easily and it has
this really satisfying snap when it
closes shut the exhaust is well machined
it feels really precise and the whole
device is made from aluminum not
magnesium like some other surface
products the interior build quality is
different it's good it's just not as
impressive to me the material here the
Alcantara it feels awesome it's really
nice to hold and the material is adhered
to the laptop really well I tried to
pick at it to see if I could peel it off
it is stuck down really well but like I
mentioned in my previous video we'll
have to see how well it holds up over
time it does feel slightly different
from the Alcantara surface pro keyboard
so maybe it's more resistant to wear and
tear the keyboard itself feels good it's
not perfect to me there's some flex on a
keyboard deck that it didn't expect to
be there it's supposed to have a unibody
construction so I thought would just
feel a little more rigid to be clear I
do enjoy typing on it it's just the
build quality is not as good as the
exterior the trackpad is also really
nice glass surface precision drivers
I mean surface track pads are always
done well and this one's on point as
expected
now the trackpad and typing experience
feel oddly similar to the surface pro
experience and that's weird right
because a surface pro is a type pad
cover and the surface laptop is a
regular fold-out laptop keyboard it's
good it's just not as good as I was
hoping to be and in terms of the
operating system Windows 10s like the
gimped version of Windows 10
if you're watching this video obviously
you're somewhat enthusiastic about
technology and if you are Windows 10s is
not for you now don't hate on it I think
10s is going to have some great benefits
for certain users it's just that it's
not for you you should probably do that
free upgrade to Windows 10 Pro the
screen is good
I brought a spider there to get some
readings on the panel it's not a
controlled environment but color
accuracy seemed pretty good often double
check these numbers in my full review
the webcam supports Windows hello so you
can log in with your face and the image
quality isn't bad the drive speeds are
not as I expected so during the
presentation they mentioned that they
were using onboard SSD so SSDs that were
baked right into the motherboard to
provide better power efficiency and
better speeds they're using Toshiba
drives and they are pretty powerful
especially for the smaller drive read
speeds aren't bad the small capacity
drives are slower but the right speeds
these numbers are disappointing to say
the least that 128 gig Drive in
particular I wasn't able to try all the
different configurations so some of
those numbers are pulled from Toshiba
spec sheet it's not that the right
speeds are super terrible it's just that
for a device that's launching in
mid-2017 you want something a little bit
faster I was just hoping for something a
little bit faster now
this laptop is obviously not designed
for everyone there are plenty of laptops
out there that are geared for everyone
this thing is not it's geared for
someone who's looking for really good
build quality and a unique aesthetic and
I think in that front they've nailed it
but the question is whether or not it's
worth it and this is where I could look
confusing Microsoft launched this thing
at the base model for $1000 which on
paper thousand dollars for a brand new
Microsoft Surface laptop doesn't seem
that bad and then you look at the specs
and then you're like WTF this seems
really expensive when you compare this
thousand dollar base model to the
competitors is just not a compelling
purchase it's made well and it looks
super cool but the specs aren't there
and the other thing unless you have a
really undemanding workflow four gigs of
RAM and 128 gigs of storage is going to
feel anemic to say the least the mid
tier model priced at $1,300 that's a
good one and I think Microsoft knows
this that's the one that's going to sell
the best because that's the one they
have all the different colors for and
it's priced the most competitively when
you compare pricing for that one there's
still a premium to be paid for them I
soft surface branding but it's more
comparable value to its competitors and
at that configuration I think it is
worth it because you're getting
ridiculously good build quality and if
you happen to have an educational
discount it gets even better
now in terms of the i7 models I mean
they're better performers but I just
don't think they have as good of a value
at that mid to your model hope you guys
enjoyed this video I'll be doing a full
review but hope because of this video
you guys have a better understanding of
why surface laptops are priced the way
they are
thumbs we like this video subs if you
loved it see you guys next time
[Music]